---
title: Conjur Features
layout: page
section: welcome
---

<div class="row equal">
    {% include cta.md id='security' %}
    {% include cta.md id='operations' %}
</div>

{% include toc.md key='machine-identity' %}

Machine Identity is the heart of CyberArk Conjur. It was designed from the ground up to support security automation workflows of all kinds - secrets management, SSH, traffic authorization, container environments, configuration management, and custom access control scenarios.

{% include toc.md key='authorization' %}

Both CyberArk EPV and Conjur implement full role-based access control (RBAC), the proven standard in enterprise security. Conjur’s machine identity capabilities are built on the foundation of RBAC, ensuring that the automated workloads managed by Conjur are running with proven and scalable security properties. Conjur’s machine identity rules are managed using declarative documents called policies. Policy management can be federated across an organization in a strictly managed way, ensuring that management of Conjur security rules at scale is both tightly managed and scalable from the standpoint of organizational size.

{% include toc.md key='vaulting' %}

CyberArk is the leader in enterprise vaulting, whose Enterprise Password Vault (EPV) is adopted by N% of the Fortune 100. EPV is the most advanced vault available on the market today, protected by 7 layers of security and providing more than automated 100 password rotators. The CyberArk EPV is extended to the cloud by the Conjur replication architecture and machine identity capabilities, which brings vaulted secrets into the cloud in a scalable and secure way. Both CyberArk EPV and Conjur, implement role-based access control, the standard for enterprise security, and both layers of the CyberArk product provide built-in audit collection and reporting.

{% include toc.md key='audit' %}

Both CyberArk EPV and Conjur offer built-in support for collection and reporting of audit data. In an operational Conjur system, audit data is generated by client activity to “followers”, which are read-mostly replicas of the authorization rules and vaulted secrets. This audit data is then automatically shipped to the Conjur master for centralized collection. The audit data can be visualized in the Conjur UI, which also supports creation of audit reports. From the Conjur master, the audit data can be relayed to a SIEM tool such as Splunk. Conjur followers write audit data within the scope of the client transaction; therefore, Conjur does not respond to a client until the audit of the request has been permanently written.

{% include toc.md key='scalability' %}

Conjur serves client traffic from “followers” which are read-mostly replicas of the authorization rules and vaulted secrets. Conjur followers use a shared nothing architecture, which means that they scale out in a nearly ideal way. Conjur has collected extensive benchmarks of the scale-out performance of Conjur, and can demonstrate linear scaling from clusters of 1 machine to 10 or more. Conjur can demonstrate the fully authenticated, authorized, and audited retrieval of up to 4 million secrets per minute.

{% include toc.md key='integrations' %}

CyberArk officially provides and supports integration libraries between Conjur and external tools such as Active Directory, Puppet, Ansible, Chef, Jenkins, Salt Stack, Docker, Kubernetes, OpenShift, and CloudFoundry. CyberArk has officially partnered with Puppet to provide joint support for the Conjur Puppet Module. CyberArk is extending this partnering relationship to other major tool vendors in the DevOps space.

{% include toc.md key='ssh-access-management' %}

Conjur provides easy standards-based SSH access to cloud servers and virtual Machines, and provides both authentication and authorization of SSH login.

* __Authentication by public key:__ Public keys don’t need to be physically copied or otherwise distributed to each server or VM. Conjur makes the public keys available to SSH dynamically at login time.

* __Authorization:__ Once an SSH connection is authenticated, it is then authorized. Authorization is a separate step from authentication, during which the login system determines if the authenticated user should be granted login access, and what their access level (via group membership) should be.

{% include toc.md key='ui' %}

The Conjur UI allows users to log in through their browser and view Conjur activity and reports in a web interface, as well as handling some of the workflows typically done in the CLI.
